[Music]
ten early signs of a toxic relationship
being head over heels in love is a
wonderful feeling but if you absolutely
can't stop thinking about someone and if
your mood depends entirely on whether or
not they called or texted you today then
you might be prone to having an
unhealthy emotional dependence on others
and this often turns into a vicious
circle of toxic relationships but if you
know the early signs it becomes much
easier to find a way out of one number
10 you immediately think you found the
love of your life I'm sure you know
someone or perhaps you're the one who
after a first date races home ready to
shout from the rooftops I'm in love I
found my soul mate sadly though this is
usually just wishful thinking
after meeting someone who gives you
butterflies wait for some time until you
cool off to see how you feel if you find
yourself falling crazy in love with
someone you don't really know that well
take a break every few days to be on
your own and do something to distract
yourself from thinking about this person
number nine you idealize your partner
too much at the beginning of any new
relationship it's important to listen
more than speak and the key is to listen
carefully if a person casually says
something like I'm not the easiest
person to live with
pay attention they're most likely giving
you a heads up about their true selves
there's no need to selflessly reassure
people that it's nothing we'll manage
when someone throws in warnings like
these they actually mean maybe even
subconsciously that they don't think
you're right for them people who
genuinely want to be with you will
always try to show themselves from their
best side
number eight you neglect friends to
please your partner never stop seeing
your friends when you enter a
relationship it's better to introduce
your partner to your friends early on
they might notice something that you
don't and keep you from getting yourself
into a toxic relationship if your
partner doesn't want to meet your
friends and relatives this is a big red
flag it could mean that they don't feel
that the
relationship is all that serious of
course when you first start dating
someone it's natural to be focused on
this one person so even if you don't
start blowing off your friends just to
be with your love interest you might be
tempted to talk nonstop about them
whenever you are with your pals but keep
in mind that they might not want to hear
endless stories revolving solely around
the person you're dating number seven
you abandon your hobbies just like your
friends don't forget about your favorite
activities and hobbies either a new love
interest should add something to your
life
not take away anything that was already
there remember that an enthusiastic
person with lots of different interests
is very attractive as a partner don't
make a new boyfriend or girlfriend the
center of your universe plus it's unfair
to your partner if you become completely
dependent on them for your happiness
well-being and overall mood number six
you turn a blind eye to alarming signals
pay attention to any gut feelings doubts
and suspicions you may have if something
about your partner's behavior seems
disturbing to you don't hesitate to
address the issue right away don't count
on your partner changing on their own if
someone really values you telling them
just once should be enough for that
person to start making an effort to
improve the situation don't feel the
need to justify your partner's actions
by their traumatic childhood issues at
work or family problems and if you are
constantly playing the role of victim in
your relationship you need to figure out
why
number five you relentlessly trust the
opinion of your partner if you suddenly
catch yourself doing something you never
would have done before starting the
relationship just because your partner
pressured you into it then this is a bad
sign replacing your beliefs with those
of your partner means that you're losing
a significant part of yourself it's okay
to make genuine changes to your opinions
and viewpoints if that's how you really
feel but blindly agreeing with
everything your partner says is a big
no-no you risk becoming your partner
shadow and this can not only be harmful
to you but also cause your partner to
lose interest
number four you get crazy jealous over
every little thing unfortunate
experiences in the past or a fear of
being forever alone shouldn't affect
your present do the reasons for your
jealousy really exist or are they just a
figment of your imagination think long
and hard about it because nobody can
stand constant distrust or the need to
always reassure you of their love on an
hourly basis of course jealousy can be
justified when there is a cause for
concern and if instead of hearing the
desired I'm sorry I didn't mean to hurt
you it won't happen again
your partner keeps convincing you that
it doesn't mean anything you might want
to reconsider this relationship number
three you can't stand it when your
partner isn't around it's pretty common
to want to spend all of your time with
your new partner but it's important to
acknowledge the fact that time spent
apart is also valuable remember that
there are things you can and sometimes
even have to do on your own
leave some healthy space between you and
your beloved if you don't want to get
real tired of each other real fast
and don't torture yourself with negative
thoughts like what if they're with
someone else your partner is probably
just busy like most normal people they
might be hanging out with a friend
colleague or family member and that's
something they should neither hide nor
ask permission for your anxiety won't
change the situation for the better and
will definitely only make it worse don't
fill all of your free time with thoughts
of your partner focus on your own
responsibilities and things that make
you happy this will actually make your
boyfriend or girlfriend even more
interested in you number two you justify
your partner's terrible behavior
blind love is a kind of double-edged
sword of course true love doesn't care
how you look and embraces your flaws but
if you're so blindly in love that you
ignore the important flaws like
unforgivable behavior towards you or
others you've got yourself a problem
what you can't see through your
rose-colored glasses could actually be
extremely important later on in the
relationship if your date is perfectly
courteous to you but then out of nowhere
starts screaming at the waiter for
mixing up the dishes this is a warning
sign when the honeymoon phase of your
relationship is over it could be you who
ends up having to listen to your
partner's insults number one you just
can't say no who ever said you always
have to accept everything your love
interest proposes don't hesitate to
refuse invitations to events that don't
interest you or don't fit your schedule
and definitely don't accept requests
that you feel are inappropriate there's
no reason to agree to something you
don't want to do just because you don't
want to offend your partner don't lose
yourself just to please another person
because in the end it won't be
appreciated bonus what to do when your
emotions are about to take over when
negative emotions and troublesome
thoughts are literally overwhelming you
psychologist Olga Chiz has some useful
advice one don't blame your emotional
state on your loved one you are the only
one responsible for your feelings two
don't obsess over what your partner is
doing or overanalyze what their words or
actions mean don't let negative
fantasies and speculations torment you
try focusing on the here and now more
often it can really help if you
concentrate on your breathing 3 create
within yourself an internal observer
this is a part of you that will preserve
objectivity in any situation no matter
what and will never let emotions take
over if you're feeling emotionally
overwhelmed look at the situation
through the eyes of your internal
observer and remember that those
feelings at that moment do not define
the entirety of your life
[Music]
for what can chew you up and distract
you from obsessive thoughts about your
partner a cup of coffee a good movie or
book exercise a hot bath talking to a
friend whatever it is use it to get out
of your head do you know any other signs
of an unhealthy relationship tell us in
the comments below share this video with
your friends so that they'll know how to
avoid falling into a bad relationship to
hit the like button if you found the
video useful and remember to subscribe
to our Channel there's always something
interesting on the bright side of life